Computer Basics Assignment






1. What is a Computer?
     Ans -  A Computer is an electronic device that manipulates information or data. 
               It has the ability to store, retrieve and process data. Computer can be used to     
               perform a wide range of tasks, from basics calculations to complex operations.    




2. What is RAM?
     Ans -  RAM stands for random access memory. is a hardware device generally
               located on the motherboard of CPU. it is a read and write memory of a 
               computer, which means the information can be written to it as well as read
               from it.  




3. Where is data stored in a computer?
     Ans -  A computer can store data on a variety of storage media, including a hard
               disk drive (HDD), solid state drive (SDD), RAM, ROM, and external storage
               media like a USB flash drive or external hard drive, RAM is a volatile memory, 
               ROM is a non volatile memory, hard drives use magnetic disks.




4. What is the input device used to type text and numbers on a document in the 
computer system?
     Ans -  A keyboard is the most fundamental input device for any computer system. 
               it contains keys for letters and numbers as well as for specialized tasks, such
               as Enter, Delete, etc.      




5. What are the output devices?
     Ans -  Output devices are : 
                                        1. Monitor
                                        2. Printer
                                        3. Plotter
                                        4. Speakers
                                        5. Sound Card
                                        6. Headphones


      6.  Which is the input device that allows a user to move the cursor or pointer on the 
           Screen?
      Ans -  The Mouse is the input device that allows a user to move the cursor or pointer
                 on the screen.




      7.  Which language is directly understood by the computer without a translation
           program?
      Ans -  The language that a computer can understand directly without a translation
                 program is called Machine language or Assembly language. The computer’s
                 processor can directly interpret and execute it. Since it is written in binary
                 digits 0 or 1 this is lowest level language.




      8.  What are the input devices?
      Ans -  Input devices are : 
                                         1. Keyboard
                                         2. Mouse
                                         3. Touchpad
                                         4. Scanner   
                                         5. Web Camera
                                         6. Microphone
                                         7. Light pen
                                         8. Joy stick